Docs: Update Google Workspace SSO Guide (#28117)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/sso/google-workspace.mdx

---

> title: Teleport Authentication With Google Workspace (G Suite)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Teleport Authentication with Google Workspace (G Suite)
```

description: How to configure Teleport access with Google Workspace (formerly known as G Suite)
videoBanner: WTLWc6nnPfk
---

This guide will explain how to configure [Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/)
to be a single sign-on (SSO) provider to issue Teleport credentials to specific

> groups of users. When used in combination with role based access control (RBAC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
groups of users. When used in combination with role-based access control (RBAC)
```

it allows Teleport administrators to define policies like:

> - Only members of "DBA" Google group can connect to PostgreSQL databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only members of the "DBA" Google group can connect to PostgreSQL databases.
```

guide, but for now, you should ensure that your Google Workspace plan allows you
to use Teleport as you intend.

> We currently support OIDC connector version `v3`. The OIDC connector maps a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We currently support version `v3` of the OIDC connector. The OIDC connector maps a
```

![Create a service account](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/create-service-account.png)

On the [Create a
service account](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/create)
page, pick a name for your service account. Leave project access grants and user
access grants empty.

![service account creation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-creation.png)

Click the newly-created account to view its details, and copy the Unique ID for later.

![service account unique ID](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-uniqueid.png)

Create a new key for the service account, select JSON as the key type, and save
the resulting JSON file.

![service account key creation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-key.png)

Later, we will make this JSON available to the Teleport Auth Server via the
OIDC Connector configuration, either by referencing a local file or pasting the
JSON into the configuration YAML. If you plan to take the first approach, you
will need to upload the JSON to the Auth Server.

<Admonition type="note">
Teleport requires the service account JSON to be available to all Teleport Auth
Server hosts when deploying Teleport in a High Availability configuration.

> Unless you paste the JSON into the OIDC Connector configuration, you will need

Reviewer 2: We may want to advise `--google-acc` flag here, instead of pasting JSON, possibly using the syntax `"$(< file.json)"`
(see: https://stackoverflow.com/a/4229151).

Author: Updated to expand the explanation of the differences and make embedded JSON the preference: 83ddab8d00a9cbf02ddd57722c05339e0c8fe373

to upload the JSON file to all Auth Server hosts.
</Admonition>

### Configure domain-wide delegation

Configure [domain-wide
delegation](https://admin.google.com/ac/owl/domainwidedelegation) for your
newly-created service account:

Click "Add new" and add the numeric Unique ID that you've copied earlier from
the service account:

![domain-wide delegation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/domainwidedelegation.png)

Add **one** of the following scopes (more info [here](#how-google-workspace-apis-differ-by-service-level)):
- Direct and Indirect Groups (*Transitive Group Membership Support*)
  - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-identity.groups.readonly`
- Direct Groups Only
  - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group.readonly`

## Step 2/4. Create an OIDC connector

Create the OIDC connector resource using `tctl`. We will explain how to choose
values for fields within the resource spec below:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self Hosted">

```code
$ tctl sso configure oidc --preset google --id <CLIENT-ID> \
--secret <CLIENT-SECRET> \

> --google-acc-uri <PATH/TO/SERVICE-ACCOUNT-KEY>.json \

Reviewer 2: Add `file://`?

--claims-to-roles groups,auditor@example.com,auditor \
--claims-to-roles groups,teleport-developers@example.com,access \
--google-admin=<GOOGLE-WORKSPACE-ADMIN-EMAIL> > gworkspace-connector.yaml
```

The file created will resemble:

```yaml
kind: oidc
metadata:
  name: google
spec:
  claims_to_roles:
  - claim: groups
    roles:
    - auditor
    value: auditor@example.com
  - claim: groups
    roles:
    - access
    value: teleport-developers@example.com

>   client_id: CLIENT-ID
>   client_secret: CLIENT-SECRET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  client_id: <CLIENT-ID>
  client_secret: <CLIENT-SECRET>
```

It would be good to sync with the example json files too.

  display: Google
  google_admin_email: <GOOGLE-WORKSPACE-ADMIN-EMAIL>

>   google_service_account_uri: /PATH/TO/SERVICE-ACCOUNT-KEY.json

Reviewer 2: We have `file:///var/lib/teleport/gworkspace-creds.json` in examples, we may want to sync this field. Also missing `file://` part.

  issuer_url: https://accounts.google.com
  redirect_url: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/oidc/callback
version: v3
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

```code

> $ tctl sso configure oidc --preset google --id CLIENT-ID \
> --secret CLIENT-SECRET \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ tctl sso configure oidc --preset google --id <CLIENT-ID> \
--secret <CLIENT-SECRET> \
```

--claims-to-roles groups,auditor@example.com,auditor \
--claims-to-roles groups,teleport-developers@example.com,access \
--google-admin=<GOOGLE-WORKSPACE-ADMIN-EMAIL> \
--google-acc '
{
  "type": "service_account",
  ...
  "universe_domain": "googleapis.com"
}'
```

The file created will resemble:

```yaml
kind: oidc
metadata:
  name: google
spec:
  claims_to_roles:
  - claim: groups
    roles:
    - auditor
    value: auditor@example.com
  - claim: groups
    roles:
    - access
    value: teleport-developers@example.com

>   client_id: CLIENT-ID.apps.googleusercontent.com
>   client_secret: CLIENT-SECRET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  client_id: <CLIENT-ID>.apps.googleusercontent.com
  client_secret: <CLIENT-SECRET>
```

Author: Actually, it should be: `client_id: <CLIENT-ID>`, since `.apps.googleusercontent.com` is included in what the user provides. Having it outside of the var here implies that `tctl` adds it.

### Create an OAuth client ID

Under **Credentials**, select **CREATE CREDENTIALS**, then **OAuth client ID**:

![Create an OAuth Client ID](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/create-oauth-client-id.png)

Select "Web application" as the Application type, pick a name, then set the

> redirect URI based on the path to your Teleport proxy or cloud tenant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
redirect URI based on the address of your Teleport Proxy Service or cloud tenant:
```
There are a lot of proxies in a Teleport setup, so suggesting being more specific re: the Proxy Service.

<nobr><Var name="https://example.teleport.sh"/>`/v1/webapi/oidc/callback`</nobr>

![OAuth client ID creation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/clientid-creation.png)

Copy the Client ID and Client Secret from the next screen or click **DOWNLOAD JSON**:

![OAuth client data](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/clientid-data.png)

### Create a service account

From the GCP **IAM & Admin** menu select **Service Accounts**. From the kebab
menu click **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT**:

![Create a service account](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/create-service-account.png)

On the [Create a
service account](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/create)
page, pick a name for your service account. Leave project access grants and user
access grants empty.

![service account creation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-creation.png)

Click the newly-created account to view its details, and copy the Unique ID for later.

![service account unique ID](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-uniqueid.png)

Create a new key for the service account, select JSON as the key type, and save
the resulting JSON file.

![service account key creation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/serviceacct-key.png)

> Later, we will make this JSON available to the Teleport Auth Server via the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Later, we will make this JSON available to the Teleport Auth Service via the
```
For consistency with other pages. We're kind of split between "Auth Service" and "Auth Server" in the docs, but the Core Concepts page says "Auth Service".

OIDC Connector configuration, either by referencing a local file or pasting the
JSON into the `tctl` command creating the connector. If you plan to take the

> first approach, you will need to upload the JSON to the Auth Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first approach, you will need to upload the JSON to the Auth Service.
```

<Admonition type="note">
Teleport requires the service account JSON to be available to all Teleport Auth

> Server hosts when deploying Teleport in a High Availability configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service hosts when deploying Teleport in a High Availability configuration.
```

> For distributed / HA or cloud deployments, we suggest providing the JSON when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For high availability or cloud deployments, we suggest providing the JSON when
```

creating the connector resource.
</Admonition>

### Configure domain-wide delegation

Configure [domain-wide
delegation](https://admin.google.com/ac/owl/domainwidedelegation) for your
newly-created service account:

Click "Add new" and add the numeric Unique ID that you've copied earlier from
the service account:

![domain-wide delegation](../../../img/sso/googleoidc/domainwidedelegation.png)

> Add **one** of the following scopes (more info [here](#how-google-workspace-apis-differ-by-service-level)):

Reviewer: I think this link should be more specific about what the target is pointing to, rather than using "here" (e.g., see: https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2012/06/links-should-never-say-click-here/).

Also, it looks like this is the only link to this section of the page. Would it make sense to put this information in `Details` box here instead so the reader doesn't need to jump around?

Author: Considering that the link points back up so what the reader should have already read and the descriptive nature of the bullets below, I think we can remove the link:

```suggestion
Add **one** of the following scopes depending on your Google Workspace:
```

- Direct and Indirect Groups (*Transitive Group Membership Support*)
  - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-identity.groups.readonly`
- Direct Groups Only
  - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group.readonly`

## Step 2/4. Create an OIDC connector

Create the OIDC connector resource using `tctl`. We will explain how to choose
values for fields within the resource spec below:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise", "cloud"]} label="Embedded JSON">

Use this method to define the service account JSON in the connector resource.
This method doesn't require providing the JSON file to the host(s) running the

> Auth service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth Service.
```

  client_id: <CLIENT-ID>
  client_secret: <CLIENT-SECRET>
  display: Google
  google_admin_email: <GOOGLE-WORKSPACE-ADMIN-EMAIL>
  google_service_account_uri: /PATH/TO/SERVICE-ACCOUNT-KEY.json
  issuer_url: https://accounts.google.com
  redirect_url: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/oidc/callback
version: v3
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Copy/Paste Tip"
>
  Be sure to remove < > brackets around tokens in the sample configuration above.
  For example, replace `<GOOGLE-WORKSPACE-ADMIN-EMAIL>` with `admin@yourdomain.com`.
</Admonition>

The email that you set for `google_admin_email` **must** be the email address of
a user that has permission to list all groups, users, and group membership in
your Google Workspace account. This user will generally need super admin or group
admin privileges.

Do not use the email of the service account for `google_admin_email`. The
configuration display will look the same, but the service account will not have
the required domain-wide delegation.

The `client_id` field must be the unique ID number captured from the Google Cloud
Platform UI. An indicator that this is misconfigured is if you see "invalid Google

> Workspace credentials for scopes [...]" in your log.

Reviewer: Which log?

Author: I don't know. While this is green because of the formatting changes, this content predates my updates. Having done it right :puts-shades-on: I didn't encounter this error in any log.

Author: It's probably:

```suggestion
Workspace credentials for scopes [...]" in your Teleport logs or the `tctl` output.
```

But ping @Tener to confirm.

Reviewer: Double-checking with @Tener. If it's the Auth Service log, this won't be available to cloud-hosted Teleport admins

Author: You reminded me that audit logs are accessible in the Web UI, where I found an example of this error. So to solve:

```suggestion
Workspace credentials for scopes [...]" in your audit log, accessible from the
Auth service host or the **Management** section of the web UI.
```
